# Optional: Creating a Django project (steps and code)
 

## Introduction
This Reading will give you an overview of the steps to be taken while working with VS Code using pipenv as your virtual environment while creating a Django project. The project structure can be variable according to the learner preferences, but the one suggested can also be used for ease. 

Note: The instructions in this reading may vary slightly from the instructions in the video about creating a Django project because the video presumes a preconfigured Pipfile. 

Note: The commands added below are specific to MacOS. The learner will have to make OS specific changes such as using keyword python instead of python3 for Windows OS.  

## Step 1
Open VS Code on your computer and click on File. In the drop-down menu select Open Folder and select the folder you have created for the project. 

Open Folder option under the File drop-down menu.
Now click on Terminal and select New Terminal from the drop-down menu. This is the main folder that contains all your files for the Django project you are going to create. 

## Step 2
Create a directory for the Django project by running the following command:

mkdir LittleLemon

## Step 3
Step inside the LittleLemon directory with the command:

cd LittleLemon

## Step 4
Run the following command to create a project in this directory:

django-admin startproject BookList .

## Step 5
Run a command to activate pipenv:

pipenv shell

Note: It is expected that pipenv is installed using pip in your local machine. 

## Step 6
Open the file labeled Pipfile that was created inside the project directory. This file contains details of the dependencies for the project. Update it with the following code and save the file. 

The Pipfile in the project directory.

```python
[[source]]
url = "https://pypi.org/simple"
verify_ssl = true
name = "pypi"
 
[packages]
django = "*"
djangorestframework = "*"
djangorestframework-xml = "*"
djoser = "*"
 
[dev-packages]
 
[requires]
python_version = "3.9"
```

## Step 7
Run this command to install the dependencies using the updated Pipfile: 

pipenv install

Note: Alternatively, you can also use commands such as pipenv install django to install specific packages. This will also update the Pipfile. 

## Step 8
Now run this command to create a Django app:

python3 manage.py startapp LittleLemonDRF

## Step 9
Run the command to start the server to test if the installation was successful.

python3 manage.py runserver

Stop the server by pressing Ctrl + C while you are in the Terminal window.

## Step 10
Create the urls.py file in the app-level LittleLemonDRF directory.

Selection of urls.py
Paste the following code inside it:

```python
from django.urls import path
from . import views
 
urlpatterns = [
    path('ratings', views.RatingsView.as_view()),
]
```

Note: The specific url configurations will differ according to the views created 

## Step 11
Open the urls.py file in the project-level directory and update the code as follow:

```python

from django.contrib import admin
from django.urls import path, include
 
urlpatterns = [
    path('admin/', admin.site.urls),
    path('api/',include('LittleLemonDRF.urls')),
]
```
 Note: The specific url configurations at the project-level will vary according to the name of the app created. 

## Concluding Thoughts
In this reading, you learnt about the initial setup you need to make on your local machine while running VS Code with pipenv for creating a Django project.  